---
title: FK-100 | Catalysts | Products | Topsoe
url: https://www.topsoe.com/products/catalysts/fk-100#main-content
---

# CATALYSTS

## Formaldehyde synthesis catalyst

Designed to meet your business and technical needs, the FK-100 formaldehyde catalyst delivers a unique combination of high intrinsic selectivity, outstanding stability and operational flexibility. Add in our individually tailored loading patterns and plant optimization advice, and you’ll see how the FK-100 is the most compelling formaldehyde catalyst on the market today.

## Advantages

- Higher selectivity
- Higher yield
- Lower by-product formation
- Operational flexibility

## Higher formaldehyde yields

Our latest-generation FK-100 formaldehyde catalyst features a carefully optimized formulation of molybdenum oxide and iron oxide that dramatically reduces CO and DME by-product formation. This, combined with an optimized structure, shape and composition, means exceptional selectivity – withyields typically exceeding 93% at 98.5% conversion.

## Extended catalyst lifetime

Manufacturing and composition optimizations have enabled us to reduce the FK-100’s hotspot temperature by 15–20°C compared to previous generation catalysts. A lower hotspot temperature means uniform temperature profiles in the catalyst tubes and minimized catalyst degradation, and this has lowered the pressure drop rate and extended the lifetime of the catalyst.

## Operational flexibility

The FK-100 catalyst easily accommodates the considerable fluctuations in humidity, ambient temperatures and methanol feed that plants can experience, further enhancing flexibility while reducing plant downtime.

## Loading and other optimization advice

To keep your reactor performing optimally, your loading pattern and operating parameters must reflect both plant conditions and product requirements. TOPSOE™ engineers are always standing by to help you tailor your loading pattern to fit specific requirements and to provide supervisory assistance during loading.