---
title: TK-261 | Catalysts | Products | Topsoe
url: https://www.topsoe.com/products/catalysts/tk-261#main-content
---

# CATALYSTS

## Hydrogenation catalyst

TK-261 is the latest hydrogenation catalyst developed by TOPSOE™ for syngas applications. The nickel-molybdenum-based TK-261 catalyst is manufactured using an improved carrier material and a new metal dispersion technique, which results in superior hydrogenation activity.

By selecting TK-261, very long catalyst lifetimes can be achieved in the hydrogenation section, and downstream catalysts will benefit from the unmatched protection of TK-261.

## Application

TK-261 is used for hydrogenation of sulfur, chlorine and unsaturated compounds in hydrocarbon feeds ranging from natural gas to naphtha.

## Superior hydrogenation activity

The superior hydrogenation activity of TK-261 is the result of TOPSOE™’s extensive R&D efforts within hydrogenation catalysts. The modified alumina carrier has an optimized pore structure that facilitates easy access to the active nickel and molybdenum sites.

A new production method ensures a fine metal dispersion, which greatly increases the number of active sites. The combination of an improved pore structure and optimum metal dispersion provides TK-261 with a superior hydrogenation activity.

## Optimized shape

TK-261 is manufactured in an asymmetric quadralobe shape, which results in a low pressure drop across the catalyst bed. Furthermore, the quadralobe shape enhances the effective catalyst activity by providing a large external surface area and minimizing the diffusion distance inside the catalyst pellets.