---
title: VK59 | Catalysts | Products | Topsoe
url: https://www.topsoe.com/products/catalysts/vk59#main-content
---

# CATALYSTS

VK59 is a cesium-promoted catalyst optimized for medium to high strength SO2gasses with continuous operation down to 370°C (700°F). A top layer of VK59 in the first pass makes it possible to accommodate high strength SO2feed gas without exceeding the maximum outlet temperature of 630°C (1165°F) and still maintain high bed conversion efficiency. VK59 installed in the lower pass(es) of single absorption plants allows for significant conversion improvement.

Benefits

- accommodates strong SO2feed gas without excessive first pass exit temperatures
- greatly improved operating flexibility for rapidly changing feed gas composition
- low ignition temperature for faster and cleaner start-ups
- significantly extended idle time for autothermal restarts
- improved overall conversion in single absorption plants Improved energy efficiency throughout the operating cycle due to low initial pressure drop.

## Low ignition temperature

VK59 and[VK69](/products/catalysts/vk69)have an exceptionally low ignition or “strike” temperatures of 320-330°C (610-625°F) that offer new possibilities for faster and cleaner start-ups. Autothermal restarts can be accomplished after a significantly longer idle time without the use of pre-heat.

## 12 mm Daisy

The 12 mm Daisy has become the most widely used catalyst shape on the market since introduced by TOPSOE™ in 1984. The high void fraction results in improved energy efficiency throughout the operating cycle due to low initial pressure drop and increased capacity for dust. TOPSOE™’s 12 mm Daisy-shape has proven to be robust as well, with reported screening losses typically well below 10%. TOPSOE™’s[VK38](/products/catalysts/vk38),[VK48](/products/catalysts/vk48), and VK59 formulations are all available in the 12 mm Daisy-shape.

### Benefits

- low initial pressure drop
- high dust capacity yielding in a lower rate of pressure drop increase
- high activity
- low screening losses

Get in touch