---
title: Topsoe supports SGP BioEnergy in renewable fuels production in Panama
url: https://www.topsoe.com/press-releases/topsoe-supports-sgp-bioenergy-in-renewable-fuels-production-in-panama#main-content
---

# Topsoe supports SGP BioEnergy in renewable fuels production in Panama

*Published: October 31, 2022*

- SGP BioEnergy to build Latin America’s largest renewable fuels plant with two units in Colon and Balboa, Panama to produce sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) and renewable diesel (RD), respectively.
- SGP BioEnergy has chosen Topsoe technology to support the production of low-carbon fuels and to allow the facility to operatewith net-zero emissions by adding green hydrogen from the refining process.
- Once fully operational, the biorefinery will produce 180,000 barrels per day of SAF and RD, and 405,000 metric tonnes of green hydrogen annually.
- This is asignificant contribution to meet the growing demand for SAF, which is expected to reach 7 billion to 10.6 billion gallons, or 5%-7.5% of global aviation fuel consumption by 2030[(BloombergNEF](https://about.bnef.com/blog/2022-sustainable-aviation-fuel-outlook/)).

Topsoe,a global leader in carbon emission reduction technologies, has been appointed by SGP BioEnergy to support the production of renewable fuels in South America’s largest upcoming renewable fuels plant, located in Panama.

Topsoe will provide its innovative HydroFlex™ technology to produce SAF and RD, while also deploying itsH2bridge™technology to ensure theplant has a net-zero greenhouse gas footprint, recycling green hydrogen generated by waste carbon and production by-product back into the plant’s operations.

**Henrik Rasmussen****, Managing Director, The Americas, Topsoe, said:**“This is truly an amazing project, and we are proud to work with SGP BioEnergy to bring it to life. We are excited to support the production of low-carbon fuels with our proven technologies for what will be the largest renewable fuels plant inSouth America, while alsofacilitating the net-zero operations of the biorefinery. It is a true model for a low-carbon energy future.”

Construction is on schedule for first production by 2025. The biorefinery will have a producing capacity of 180,000 barrels per day (2.6 billion gallons per year) of biofuel and 405,000 metric tons of green hydrogen annually once fully operational.Panama offers great potential as a platform to transport the sustainable fuels globally.

**Randy Delbert Letang****, CEO of SGP BioEnergy, said:**“This facility is truly a model of the future of the energy transition. We will not only produce the fuel that will decarbonize transportation but do so in a way that is also decarbonizing the manufacturing process itself.  It is the first time both advanced biofuels and green hydrogen will be produced together at this scale, and we are excited to be bringing this innovation toPanama.”

**What is renewable diesel******Renewable diesel is a low-carbon fuel made from renewable sources and is chemically identical to regular petroleum diesel. This means, it produces less greenhouse gas emissions, while performing the same as regular petroleum diesel and can be used without modification to engines or infrastructure.

Renewable diesel is made sustainably from waste or recycled animal fats, e.g. from restaurants, as well as inedible corn and soybean oil. These materials, that would otherwise be thrown away, are converted into diesel, producing a much cleaner alternative to regular diesel.

**What is HydroFlex™ and H2bridge™**With HydroFlex™, customers can convert low value feedstocks into drop-in renewable jet and diesel that meets all of the globally accepted specifications for these fuels. The innovative HydroFlex™ process layout offers lower capital expenditure (CAPEX), but also a lower energy consumption during operation, resulting in a lower Carbon Index (CI). Topsoe’s HydroFlex™ can be deployed in both grassroots units and revamps for co-processing or stand-alone applications. HydroFlex™ is by far the most successful renewable fuels technology globally.

The H2bridge™ technology captures waste propane and carbon off gas from the refining process, converts it into green hydrogen to be included in powering facility operations.

**About SGP BioEnergy**SGP BioEnergy is a bioenergy business leader committed to the science of solving global energy challenges sustainably. Independent of legacy oil interests, our ecosystem of partners in agriculture, finance, production, and technology are working together to make industrial-scale advanced biofuels a reality for an established set of customers that share our passion for a more sustainable future.

To successfully produce biofuels at scale requires three main elements: 1) Reliable feedstock that is cost comparative to fossil fuels. 2) Refining production that is efficient and can readily deliver fuel to buyers and 3) Established customers committed to purchase biofuel to ensure a return on investment. SGP BioEnergy believes that business begins with people and collaboration. Through our collaborative approach we have built strong partnerships in all three areas to make biofuel production at scale a reality and create long-term solutions to realize a more sustainable world.

**About Topsoe******Founded in 1940, Topsoe is a leading global developer and supplier of decarbonization technology, catalysts, and services for the energy transition.

Our mission is to combat climate change by helping our partners and customers achieve their decarbonization and emission-reduction targets, including those in hard-to-abate sectors such as aviation, shipping, and the production of raw materials. From carbon reduction chemicals, to renewable fuels and plastic upcycling, we are uniquely positioned to aid humanity in realizing a sustainable future.

Topsoe is headquartered in Denmark, with over 2,100 employees serving customers all around the globe. To learn more, visit[**www.topsoe.com**](https://nam04.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.topsoe.com%2F%3FhsLang%3Den-us&data=04%7C01%7CSKLandes%40dow.com%7C43363499773b4f38cc7808d9784c3972%7Cc3e32f53cb7f4809968d1cc4ccc785fe%7C0%7C0%7C637673091057580415%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=DXePUdQ5tKLt3bDCluKCIdIMaJBoN9VwVnXsbJNmoKc%3D&reserved=0)

**For more information, please contact:**Ulrik Frøhlke, Media Relations ManagerPhone: +45 27 77 99 68Mail:[ulfr@topsoe.com](mailto:ulfr@topsoe.com)

#### Share your thoughts

### Comment on this post

## Other posts you might be interested in

#### Subscribe to our blog updates