---
title: Hydrocracker safety management and incident case studies
url: https://www.topsoe.com/topsoe-academy-on-demand/path-66b483604a14d1d7f81ca078#main-content
---

# TOPSOEACADEMY™

Topsoe AcademyOn-demand will empower you to get the most out of your plant.A growing library of more than 850 on-demand learning activities will help you stay on top of new developments and technologies. Anywhere, anytime.**Topsoe Academy On-demand brings you:**

- Unlimited access to all training content founded on Topsoe's extensive knowledge base (for Premium users)
- 24/7 on-demand training, accessible directly from desktop, tablet or mobile
- Increased plant efficiency through a broadened knowledge base
- Reduced need to develop own training - possible to streamline onboarding of new employees
- Continuously updated content

**From knowledge to action - easily**

On the Topsoe Academy On-demand portal, you can access video lessons, courses and learning activities that are based on decades of experience, supporting plants with both catalyst and process optimization. The lessons are designed to bring you knowledge about the actual working experience, so the knowledge you gain is easy to put into action afterwards.The lessons will also include recommendations from Topsoe’s solution experts to help you discover new functionalities of your plant.The knowledge will be aimed at both beginners and more experienced personnel.

****

[CONTACT US](https://www.topsoe.com/topsoe-academy-on-demand)

**Tags**Hydrocracking, Refinery, Hydroprocessing

## Description:

Ensuring safe and efficient operations in hydrocrackers is crucial for protecting personnel and maintaining profitability. This learning path provides a comprehensive understanding of hydrocracker safety through detailed analysis and real-life examples of hydrocracker incidents. We hope that you may find useful takeaways and by adapting these insights to your plant operations, enhance safety protocols and operational efficiency.

## Content:

This learning path consists of three courses:

- Ensuring safe operations in hydrocrackers
- Safety strategies and learnings from an incident in a hydrocracker
- Critical analysis of a fatal hydrocracker temperature excursion

Ensuring safe operations in hydrocrackers

Safety strategies and learnings from an incident in a hydrocracker

Critical analysis of a fatal hydrocracker temperature excursion

Each course consists of multiple lessons. The expected time to complete each course is approximately 45-60 minutes. By the end of this path, you will have a thorough understanding of hydrocracker safety, practical strategies for incident prevention, and the ability to apply these lessons in your own operations.

Removed embedded video

[Sign up](https://academy.topsoe.com/paths/66b483604a14d1d7f81ca078/home)

#### Request Access

**Already registered?[Log in here](https://academy.topsoe.com/home/content/all)**