---
title: Catalyst theory and operation - SMR-based hydrogen plants
url: https://www.topsoe.com/topsoe-academy-on-demand/path-6458d25c6299fcc23c467f14#main-content
---

# TOPSOEACADEMY™

Topsoe AcademyOn-demand will empower you to get the most out of your plant.A growing library of more than 850 on-demand learning activities will help you stay on top of new developments and technologies. Anywhere, anytime.**Topsoe Academy On-demand brings you:**

- Unlimited access to all training content founded on Topsoe's extensive knowledge base (for Premium users)
- 24/7 on-demand training, accessible directly from desktop, tablet or mobile
- Increased plant efficiency through a broadened knowledge base
- Reduced need to develop own training - possible to streamline onboarding of new employees
- Continuously updated content

**From knowledge to action - easily**

On the Topsoe Academy On-demand portal, you can access video lessons, courses and learning activities that are based on decades of experience, supporting plants with both catalyst and process optimization. The lessons are designed to bring you knowledge about the actual working experience, so the knowledge you gain is easy to put into action afterwards.The lessons will also include recommendations from Topsoe’s solution experts to help you discover new functionalities of your plant.The knowledge will be aimed at both beginners and more experienced personnel.

****

[CONTACT US](https://www.topsoe.com/topsoe-academy-on-demand)

**Tags**Hydrogen

## Description:

This learning path in basic catalyst theory and operation covers the catalysts that you typically have in a SMR-based hydrogen plant. This learning path is part one of the “Operator training” learning path.You will gain an in-depth look into the characteristics of the catalysts as well as the reactions that occur. Based on this, you will learn about the general optimal operating conditions of the catalysts, as well as the typical operational challenges which plants face for the different catalysts. Some process aspects are also covered, but the main focus will be on the catalysts.

## Content:

This learning path awards a certificate once completed and consists of 5 courses, each of which will focus on a different reactor/catalyst type:

- Feed purification - Hydrogenation catalyst
- Feed purification - Desulfurization absorbents
- Prereforming catalyst
- Tubular steam reforming catalyst
- Medium temperature shift catalyst

Each course consists of 5-8 lessons and a summary exam. Expected time to complete is approximately 45 minutes per course.

Removed embedded video

[Sign up](https://academy.topsoe.com/paths/6458d25c6299fcc23c467f14/home)

#### Request Access

**Already registered?[Log in here](https://academy.topsoe.com/home/content/all)**