---
title: General plant start-up - SMR-based hydrogen plants
url: https://www.topsoe.com/topsoe-academy-on-demand/path-65fae355aa65e8cf51918ac5#main-content
---

# TOPSOEACADEMY™

Topsoe AcademyOn-demand will empower you to get the most out of your plant.A growing library of more than 850 on-demand learning activities will help you stay on top of new developments and technologies. Anywhere, anytime.**Topsoe Academy On-demand brings you:**

- Unlimited access to all training content founded on Topsoe's extensive knowledge base (for Premium users)
- 24/7 on-demand training, accessible directly from desktop, tablet or mobile
- Increased plant efficiency through a broadened knowledge base
- Reduced need to develop own training - possible to streamline onboarding of new employees
- Continuously updated content

**From knowledge to action - easily**

On the Topsoe Academy On-demand portal, you can access video lessons, courses and learning activities that are based on decades of experience, supporting plants with both catalyst and process optimization. The lessons are designed to bring you knowledge about the actual working experience, so the knowledge you gain is easy to put into action afterwards.The lessons will also include recommendations from Topsoe’s solution experts to help you discover new functionalities of your plant.The knowledge will be aimed at both beginners and more experienced personnel.

****

[CONTACT US](https://www.topsoe.com/topsoe-academy-on-demand)

**Tags**Hydrogen

## Description:

This learning path, focusing on SMR-based hydrogen plants, will help you prepare and execute your start-ups more efficiently and safely. This learning path is part three of the “Operator training” learning path.A trouble-free start-up is the first step towards a profitable production cycle. During start-up, plants need to pay close attention to their equipment and their catalysts, and it is also important to focus on how different parts of the plant interact. This learning path covers everything you need to think about before your next plant start-up.

## Content:

This learning path awards a certificate once completed and consists of 7 courses, each of which will cover different part of the start up, focusing on the prerequisites and the procedure for each step:

- Prechecks for start-up
- Start-up sequence and overview
- Start-up of Steam system and cooling train
- Reformer loop heat-up with N2 circulation
- Feed purification section heat up & steam + H2 introduction
- Feed cut-in and stable operation
- Shift and PSA process gas introduction

Each course consists of 6-10 lessons and a summary exam. Expected time to complete is approximately 60 minutes per course.

[Sign up](https://academy.topsoe.com/paths/65fae355aa65e8cf51918ac5/home)

#### Request Access

**Already registered?[Log in here](https://academy.topsoe.com/home/content/all)**