---
title: Operator training - SMR-based Hydrogen plants
url: https://www.topsoe.com/topsoe-academy-on-demand/path-66474ce1c3aaa85fd6b4793b#main-content
---

# TOPSOEACADEMY™

Topsoe AcademyOn-demand will empower you to get the most out of your plant.A growing library of more than 850 on-demand learning activities will help you stay on top of new developments and technologies. Anywhere, anytime.**Topsoe Academy On-demand brings you:**

- Unlimited access to all training content founded on Topsoe's extensive knowledge base (for Premium users)
- 24/7 on-demand training, accessible directly from desktop, tablet or mobile
- Increased plant efficiency through a broadened knowledge base
- Reduced need to develop own training - possible to streamline onboarding of new employees
- Continuously updated content

**From knowledge to action - easily**

On the Topsoe Academy On-demand portal, you can access video lessons, courses and learning activities that are based on decades of experience, supporting plants with both catalyst and process optimization. The lessons are designed to bring you knowledge about the actual working experience, so the knowledge you gain is easy to put into action afterwards.The lessons will also include recommendations from Topsoe’s solution experts to help you discover new functionalities of your plant.The knowledge will be aimed at both beginners and more experienced personnel.

****

[CONTACT US](https://www.topsoe.com/topsoe-academy-on-demand)

**Tags**Hydrogen

## Description:

Having a skilled and trained team of operators is crucial to the successful operation of a plant. This collection of learning paths will set you on the right track for that.

The courses in this combined training will give you the most needed knowledge to be able to start-up, operate, and optimize your plant and act as a great foundation of learning for any operator team.

## Content:

This learning path awards a certificate once completed and 4 learning paths, each of which covers a different subject and which will again contain a number of courses. The learning paths included in the Operator training collection includes:

- Catalyst theory & operation
- General plant understanding
- General plant operation
- General plant start-up

Each learning path consists of 5-8 courses, each with and individual summary exam. Expected time to complete is approximately 5 days in total, for all the learning paths.

[Sign up](https://academy.topsoe.com/paths/66474ce1c3aaa85fd6b4793b/home)

#### Request Access

**Already registered?[Log in here](https://academy.topsoe.com/home/content/all)**