---
title: Remove the carbon - lower the footprint
url: https://www.topsoe.com/blue-hydrogen/carbon-capture-technologies#main-content
---

### BLUE HYDROGEN

#### Remove the carbon - lower the footprint

Efficient carbon capture is essential to producing ultra-low carbon intensity blue hydrogen on a large scale. And the great news is, the technologies needed for such effective CO2 removal are already here, ready to perform.

However, this poses a question:*which*carbon removal technology do you choose for yourblue hydrogen facility, and why?

The honest answer is … it depends. It depends on your carbon capture ambitions, the type of reforming technology at your disposal, your plant location and capacity, and whether you are building a new facility or revamping an existing plant – the list goes on.

Currently, there are three relevant carbon dioxide removal processes available, and they can all be integrated with your preferred hydrogen production method – with our help.

Once natural gas is reformed into syngas and shifted into hydrogen, CO2 can be captured prior to the hydrogen-purification stage. This form of CO2 removal is typicallya solventabsorption-based process, where the CO2 gas is compressed after capture in preparation for permanent storage.

Hydrogen purification is typically done in a Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) unit. After separation of the hydrogen from the syngas, the CO2 leaves the PSA together with the off-gas, which would usually beused as fuel in the reformer. The CO2, however, can also be removed from this stream and condensed using – for example –cryogenic-separation technology, thus enabling the CO2 to betransported as high-pressure liquid.

CO2 from flue gas, which itself is generated by the combustion of fuel gas as well as PSA off-gas, can also be captured.And, although this process is technically demanding due tothe greaterequipment dimensions needed to capture CO2 from low-pressure gas, this solution is excellent for both revamping existing plants and implementation in new, smaller-capacity plants.

Whether you know which technology will best suit your operational demands, or if you need guidance coming to a decision, we can help you determine the optimal path to producing ultra-low carbon intensity hydrogen at mega-scale – and at the lowest levelized cost.

With the broadest toolbox of hydrogen technologies on the market, and the most comprehensive overview of all available CO2 removal technologies, our tech-agnostic approach will ensure only the best solution is applied to your project.

Get an end-to-end blue hydrogen solution including hydrogen production and carbon capture from one single-point licensor. And, whether you would like to revamp your current operations or build new facilities, we are ready and able to support you.

#### Adam Samir Kadhim

Contact our**Expert**for more information about Topsoe.

Blue Hydrogen

What if we said you could dramatically decarbonize your business, today? Well, with blue hydrogen, you can.

Blue hydrogen can be produced at mega scale, leveraging existing natural gas infrastructure to ...

With smart integration of carbon capture technology, we can ensure that you produce ultra-low ...

Topsoe has the broadest selection of technologies to produce blue hydrogen today — all with one ...

Blue Hydrogen Production is a process which requires thought, collaboration, and a large amount of ...

Listen to a discussion on the growing global demand for hydrogen and on its new applications in the ...

Legislations and subsidies make the business case for blue hydrogen a very interesting proposition ...

Blue hydrogen can potentially address GHG emissions as a fuel substitute in sectors currently ...

Choosing a hydrogen solution shouldn't (just) be a question of color. It should be about reduction ...